Phoenix halls (luantang 鸞堂) constitute a form of religious life situated between sectarian movements and temple cults. Their main features include millennial beliefs, worships of the Benevolent Lords (Enzhu 恩主) and Jade Emperor, spirit-writing rituals, and the production of morality books plus other sacred texts.
This dissertation focuses on one of northern Taiwan’s most important phoenix halls, the Xingzhong Tang (Hall of Transmitting Loyalty), founded in Danshui 淡水 by the Li family in 1899. I explore the development of this phoenix hall in terms of its dissemination of beliefs and practices, consolidation of status and influence, and ability to adapt to changing times. In addition, I draw on the concepts of “incense power” and “phoenix hall networks” to trace how the Xingzhong Tang was able to attract worshippers while also establishing links with other important sacred sites.
Beginning with its establishment in 1899, the Xingzhong Tang actively utilized spirit-writing, healing, and the production of morality books to enhance its incense power. In addition, it relied on patterns of “systemic ritualization” (tizhi lishi 體制禮式), while also editing morality books in order to make connections to other temples.
All of this changed after World War II, when Nationalist (KMT) government local authorities strove to ban spirit-writing for medicinal purposes, while the practice of spirit-writing suffered a decline due to shortage of qualified personnel. In response, the Xingzhong Tang promoted innovative forms of incense power, including the worship of new deities, setting up a room where worshippers could spend the night to receive messages from deities during dreams, and staging Dipper Bushel Ceremonies (lidou fahui 禮斗法會) plus Daoist Offering Ceremonies (jianjiao fahui 建醮法會) with scripture chanting troupes (songjing tuan 誦經團), all of which constituted a new type of religious ecology. Thus, the history of the Xingzhong Tang reveals the gradual disappearance of older types of phoenix hall beliefs and practices followed by their being superseded by the adoption of new ones.