Along Yun-Lin and Chia-Yi mountain area, there are abundant in bamboo resources, which lay a good foundation for local bamboo paper industry. Bamboo paper has various uses, it can be used on writing, wrapping, worshiping, and especially the usage of making joss paper is the biggest, which plays an important role in people’s daily life. The purpose of the thesis is going to research in the development of bamboo paper industry of Gu-Keng mountain area under Japanese rule, making an approach to the development of bamboo paper of different periods via researching local paper-making industry.
Firstly, the thesis is going to research in the management and production process of Gu-Keng traditional bamboo paper industry. The traditional bamboo paper industry of Gu-Keng is limited by natural environment. The management and production take place within local area; the bamboo paper industries there, are usually small-scale factories with family members working as employees.
Secondly, research how modern paper industry in the early colonial period, Mitsubishi Paper Mills Company, to make paper in mechanization way. Due to the immature of chemical industry technology, Mitsubishi Paper Mills Company was unable to commercialize bamboo paper in large scale, which declared the failure of paper-making mechanization. The traditional paper-making technology had hardly changed until the end of colonial period.
Finally, explain how the import of Chinese bamboo paper, the production of local bamboo paper and the official policy affect the bamboo paper industry of Gu-Keng mountain area. Although the quantity of bamboo paper of Taiwan is increase year after year, the price was affected by the price of Chinese bamboo paper due to product similarity before 1930s. During the last phase of 1920s, the mechanization of local bamboo paper industry was started, which oppressed small-scale factories along Yun-Lin and Chia-Yi mountain area. Furthermore, Temple Reorganization in the middle of 1930s causes a lot of damage to the bamboo paper industry of Gu-Keng mountain area, which led a depression of the industry.