Abstract
Ancient Chinese military strategist and philosopher Sun Tzu (孫子) had said that “We may take it then that an army without its baggage-train is lost; without provisions, it is lost; without bases of supply it is lost.” This thesis attempts to start from the perspective of supply and demand for army foods, and use the historical materials of Ming, Qing and Korea to analyze the historical process of the Liaodong War in the Ming and Qing Dynasties. Focusing the main discussion on the three battles of Sarhu（薩爾滸）, Ningyuan（寧遠）, and Songjin（松錦）, this article to evaluate Ming and Qing empire by their strategies and actual results achieved on dealing with supply and demand of army foods.
After the War of Sarhu, since loose a lot of soldiers and lands, Ming China turn from attack to defense on Liaodong War. To prevent Houji Khanate attack, The Ming Dynasty devoted its country’s human, material, and financial resources to the land of Liaodong. At this time, people lost their confidence and the price of rice raised, but Ming government needed more and more soldiers, army salary and foods. These army foods include rice and beans were obtained through land transport or purchase in Liaodong, both can't save any money. Compared with the former ways, transport army foods by shipping to Liaodong seemed like the best way.
In contrast, by plundering way to obtain the land, army, population, and all resources of the Ming Dynasty, Qing Dynasty strengthen its national power. However, in order to maintain the remaining territory of Liaodong, Ming Dynasty not only could not give up Ningjin Defense Line but also transported heavily armed troops and logistics supplies continuously. Nevertheless, when Ming army failed again and again, the military resources were occupied by the Qing army.
Overlooking the entire Liaodong war, it can say that the war was a War of attrition actually. Even though the land and population of the Ming Dynasty were dozens of times larger than the Houjin (後金), Ming army fell into a limitation of passive defense. With the repeated defeat of the War, Ming Dynasty has continuously lost valuable human and material resources.
After the Songjin War, because Ming Dynasty lost its final military power, it couldn’t reverse the result of Liaodong War.