Abstract
"Taiwan Fujinkai" （"Taiwan Women's World"） was a women's magazine published in Taiwan in the 1930s. It features a colorful cover and rich content, and has often been cited by researchers. In the past, most research on "Taiwan Fujinkai" was limited to discussion of specific topics within the magazine, and has not specifically addressed the historical background and the overall characteristics of the magazine.
This article analyzes the content and characteristics of "Taiwan Fujinkai" in a more comprehensive way from a holistic perspective. Firstly, it organizes the interpersonal network of the Taiwanese Women's Society management team and the authors and readers who influenced the style of the magazine, so as to understand the main figures involved with and characteristics of "Taiwan Fujinkai".
Secondly, the lectures and theme articles of the magazine are discussed with the troubles, interviews, photos, etc. of the "personal talks" column, demonstrating the magazine's “good wife and good mother” norms, and recognizing that the seemingly diverse female images are in fact all part of the magazine’s effort to nurture women into becoming good wives and good mothers.
Due to the particular historical background of colonial Taiwan, the magazine presents various aspects of encounters between the two different ethnic groups living in Taiwan: the Japanese and the Taiwanese. Because Taiwanese women’s school attendance rate was low, Taiwanese women who could read Japanese were concentrated in middle class families and above. Therefore, the Taiwanese women presented in the magazine have the characteristics of class differences. Following the changes in leadership of the Taiwanese Women's Society, "Taiwan Fujinkai" greatly increased content related to social education, response to national policy, and war mobilization due to its personal position and the evolution of the war situation, and educational overtones became more and more intense. In addition to the main theme of “good wife and good mother”, "Taiwan Fujinkai" also demonstrates themes of ethnicity, class and war.
Keywords: Taiwan Fujinkai, women’s magazine, good wife good mother, feminine norms, colonial Taiwan, ethnicity, class, war